Add note to "Function Resolution" section about function argument and result types (#686)
unicode-org/message-format-wg: spec/formatting.md

   The form that resolved _operand_ and _option_ values take is implementation-defined.

   Since the result of a function call can be bound to a _variable_,

>    the output of one _function_ may be the input of another _function_.

Author: I made a slightly different change instead (in order to avoid implying that an expression has output, which isn't really a concept in the spec); let me know what you think.

   Thus, formatting functions SHOULD use a structure for the resolved _operand_ value

>    that is interconvertible with the structure for the result of the _function_.

Reviewer: A few observations:
1. It is misleading to refer to "formatting" functions here, given that their output may also be used for selection. Note how the text around this avoids that term.

2. I at least have never encountered the term "interconvertible", and using it here should be avoided.

3. There are cases where it makes sense for the operand type to be wider than the output type. For example, consider the resolution of `{$n :number}`, where the implicit input variable `$n` has a string value `'42'`. In a programming language like JS, it's easier for the custom function implementation to accept that its input may be a number, bigint, string, or object, rather than requiring each of those to come pre-wrapped as suggested by the SHOULD. See steps 6 and 7 [here](https://tc39.es/proposal-intl-messageformat/#sec-messageformat-numberfunctions) for the JS implementation details of this particular case.

   I do fully agree that the output of a function is expected to be in a shape that's acceptable as input, but I am not convinced that the input must always have that same shape.

Author: > A few observations:
> 
>     1. It is misleading to refer to "formatting" functions here, given that their output may also be used for selection. Note how the text around this avoids that term.
> 

I wrote it that way since selector functions don't have an output (or at least, not in the way that the "output" is being described here.) Though I'll look and see if Addison's suggested changes address that.

>     2. I at least have never encountered the term "interconvertible", and using it here should be avoided.

OK.

> 
>     3. There are cases where it makes sense for the operand type to be wider than the output type. For example, consider the resolution of `{$n :number}`, where the implicit input variable `$n` has a string value `'42'`. In a programming language like JS, it's easier for the custom function implementation to accept that its input may be a number, bigint, string, or object, rather than requiring each of those to come pre-wrapped as suggested by the SHOULD. See steps 6 and 7 [here](https://tc39.es/proposal-intl-messageformat/#sec-messageformat-numberfunctions) for the JS implementation details of this particular case.

That seems to not be ruled out by my original text, since even if the number formatter will never return a string "42", there might be other formatting functions that _do_ just return their inputs, in some cases. 

The goal here is to make a statement about _all_ custom functions, and I think the only logical thing we can say about all of them is that (ignoring options and context), they have the type signature `T -> T`, for some `T`. In JS, `T` would mean something like `number` ∪ `BigInt` ∪ `string` ∪ `object`. That wouldn't need to be explicitly written down in JS, but in C++ (for example), you do need a type to describe the interface that functions need to implement. 

I'm not sure if this is clear, but one reason why it's hard to be precise about is that we're slipping between the object language sense of operand types and output types (as expressed in the specification of the function registry) and the meta-language sense (as expressed in an implementation's description of the calling conventions for functions).

>        I do fully agree that the output of a function is expected to be in a shape that's acceptable as input, but I am not convinced that the input must always have that same shape.

Author: > Perhaps: [...]

I took some inspiration from this suggestion, but didn't use it exactly.

   The form that resolved _operand_ and _option_ values take is implementation-defined.

   A _local-declaration_ binds the resolved value of an _expression_
   to a _variable_.
   Thus, the output of one _function_ is potentially the _operand_
   of another _function_. In other words, formatting functions
   compose with each other.
   For example, in
   ```

>    .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
>    .local {$n1 :number maxFractionDigits=3}

Reviewer 2: As @aphillips noticed, the `.local` needs a name. Making this suggestion to make sure we don't miss it, in case the other review comment isn't committed.

```suggestion
   .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
   .local $x = {$n1 :number maxFractionDigits=3}
```

>    Thus, the output of one _function_ is potentially the _operand_
>    of another _function_. In other words, formatting functions
>    compose with each other.
>    For example, in
>    ```
>    .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
>    .local {$n1 :number maxFractionDigits=3}
>    ```
>    the second call to `:number` composes with the first call.

Reviewer 3: I think adding the idea of "compose" is going too far. We should be very conservative here. Also, this still has the "output" of a function in play. Perhaps:

```suggestion
Thus, the _operand_ for one _function_ might be the resolved value
of another _function_.
Further, the _options_ for one _expression_ might affect the operation
of another.

>For example, if the value of the variable `n` were `1`:
> ```
> .input {$n :number minimumFractionDigits=1}
> .local $num = {$n :number minimumIntegerDigits=3}
> .match {$num}
> *   {{Prints 001.0 for {$num}}}
> ```
> ... because the _options_ for the `.input` and `.local` are both applied to the value
> for the purposes of both formatting and selection.
> (Note that in English, fractional values match the plural rule `other`)
```

Also note that the `.local` in the original is incorrect.

Reviewer: Fixed the indents in the above suggestion. Its example should be updated, because we should not be showing any matching (even if only with a single `*` variant) on a non-integral number. Then could also drop the parenthetical and irrelevant bit about `other`.

Reviewer: So the example could read:

```
.input {$n :number minimumFractionDigits=1}
.local $num = {$n :number minimumIntegerDigits=3}
{{Prints 001.0 for {$num}}}
```

Reviewer 2: I don't mind using the word "compose" here, but I'm also OK with dropping it and replacing with a description of the observed behavior, like @aphillips proposed.

I would, however, edit @aphillips's suggestion slightly:

```diff
-Thus, the _operand_ for one _function_ might be the resolved value
-of another _function_.
+Thus, the resolved value of one _function_ might be the _operand_
+or an _option_ value for one another _function_.
 Further, the _options_ for one _expression_ might affect the operation of another.
```

This does two things:

* The subject of the sentence is the resolved value, similar to the second sentence.
* It's not only operands that can be resolved values of other expressions; option values can as well, as per our syntax and data model.

Reviewer 3: >  because we should not be showing any matching (even if only with a single * variant) on a non-integral number.

`:number` really does need to do plural matching on fractions and this isn't a problem. Your concern is, I think, about exact matching, which I do not show. I actually think the `.match` is important to call out precisely because the fraction bits happen to `$n`

Reviewer: Ah, fair point, I was confused. Including a `one {{This is never selected}}` would clarify things a bit.

Reviewer 3: LOL. Actually, I had it originally, but removed it before submitting--I thought for clarity!

Author: "the resolved value   of another _function_" doesn't really make sense here. The resolved value of a _function_ is a thing that represents the function; the resolved value of a function applied to arguments (using more conventional declarative-language terminology) is something left unspecified, but is _not_ a representation of a function itself. The spec doesn't really offer us the language for disambiguating the two.

Author: I'm not sure if replacing the original example with the one with `.match` clarifies the point, although more examples are generally a good thing. I wanted to show an example with two formatting functions, because that's where it might not be obvious that functions compose.

   In addition, selector functions compose with formatting functions
   in the sense that a selector function's _operand_

>    may be the output of any formatting function.

Reviewer: As I mention in https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/pull/686#discussion_r1500555831, we really should avoid "formatting function" and "selector function" as terms here, given that the resolved value of a function can theoretically be used for both.

This also applies to the next paragraph.

   Implementations SHOULD provide a means for formatting functions
   to compose with each other
   and for formatting functions to compose with selector functions.

>    Implementations that provide a means for defining custom functions

Reviewer 4: I agree with the sense of this. We should also note somewhere that any two functions are not required to meaningfully compose; there is no requirement or expectation that the following make a meaningful composition:
```
.input {$date :datetime}
.local $person = {$date :x:personname}
```

Reviewer 2: +1 to this. I'm not sure if I was able to explain this in yesterday's call, but I definitely agree that there should be no requirement for *any two* functions to meaningfully compose, as you've nicely put it. This is why I've been using the term *cooperative composition* (although I'm happy to call it something else), i.e. the functions must be aware of each other's interface in order to meaningfully compose.

Reviewer 3: +100 although there are some different things going on here. In @macchiati's example, the types don't match. The `.local` declaration should emit an `Invalid Expression` error because `$date` isn't of a supported type for `:x:personname` (presumably).

In other cases, the types can match but the annotations might not be supported:

```
.input {$date :date style=long}
.local $foo = {$date :time}  // not style=long because style means "dateStyle"
```

For now, we should basically say something like "functions can decide what operands to support" and "functions can decide what functions or function options to support". We permit "composition" without requiring it **_or_** prohibiting it.

In the default registry we can add (in the TP period) some guidance for date/time/datetime and number functions as a guide.

Reviewer 4: Agreed.

   SHOULD provide a means for those functions to return values
   that contain enough information
   (e.g. the resolved _operand_ and _option_ values
   that the function was called with)

>    to be used as inputs to subsequent function calls.

Reviewer 2: This is the key part and I wouldn't want to drop it, as other reviewers suggested. Furthermore, I think we need to say *something somewhere* about resolved values. Otherwise, @aphillips's example from his suggestion above end up being the only place in the spec where we *implicitly* require that resolved values carry some extra information. I'd prefer to be explicit.

Reviewer 3: But we need to avoid being too specific about how it works. "return" has a specific meaning and I don't necessarily think it's a good idea to think of this as a function call's return value.

Our language is a declarative language and we call the stuff in an expression an "annotation" for a reason. Perhaps:

```suggestion
When resolving the value of an _operand_ or other variable
(such as the value of an _option)
implementations SHOULD provide interfaces so that _annotation_
applied in statements can accompany the value where appropriate.
Implementations of _functions_ SHOULD define whether they change the 
value of the _operand_ in any way.
Implementations of _functions_ SHOULD define whether the value of
each _option_ is transitive or local.
```

I mention "statements" here because `.match` can be where the annotation is applied (not just `.local` or `.input`)

Some examples might help here. Here might be an example of non-transitive options (we might say that field options are non-transitive in the spec):

```
.input {$d :datetime weekday=short month=medium day=numeric}
.local $d1 = {$d :datetime hour=|2-digit| minute=numeric}
{{The transaction was on {$d} at {$d1}.}}
```

Here's a similar example:

```
.input {$d :datetime timeZone=|Europe/Paris|}
.local $date = {$d :datetime dateStyle=short}
.local $time = {$date :datetime timeStyle=short}
{{What does {$date} and {$time} print?}}
```

I think it is _less_ surprising if `$time` forgets the earlier style annotation but _not_ the time zone.

We don't currently define any functions that change the value of an operand, but we certainly might do:

```
.local $regular = {|Addison| :string}
.local $shouted = {$regular :transform to=uppercase}
.match {$shouted}
ADDISON {{... is selected... }}
* {{ ... }}
```

Reviewer 2: I see your point about "calling" and "returning".

> (...) so that _annotation_ applied in statements can accompany the value where appropriate.

This sounds OK, although I'm now not sure about the exact meaning of "the value" here. I realize that this was the whole point of @catamorphism's opening the other PR...  

Btw. I think _expressions_ would be more appropriate than _statements_ — it's possible to annotate inside placeholders, too.

> Implementations of _functions_ SHOULD define whether they change the 
> value of the _operand_ in any way.
> Implementations of _functions_ SHOULD define whether the value of
> each _option_ is transitive or local.

Maybe move this part to the note about seeking feedback? We don't really know yet what defining these constraints and requirements should look like.

Author: I would also like to avoid using the word "transitive", because transitivity is a property of a mathematical relation and we haven't defined any such relations in the spec.

Author: Re: this example:

```
.input {$d :datetime weekday=short month=medium day=numeric}
.local $d1 = {$d :datetime hour=|2-digit| minute=numeric}
{{The transaction was on {$d} at {$d1}.}}
```

It's not obvious to me that the options from the first `:datetime` call shouldn't be preserved -- should `$d1` be a formatted date with the union of all the options shown in both `:datetime` annotations? Or just the `hour` and `minute` options and defaults for the others? To me there's no "obvious" answer, though maybe it's obvious to people who have more experience with message formatting.

It's certainly worth thinking about what the example means, but I'm not sure if it's the best example if the goal is to show something where certain options obviously shouldn't be preserved.

Author: On the whole, I understand the suggestion and think it's getting at something useful, but I don't see how it makes sense in the current framework of the spec, in which there is no data model for runtime values. 

I think the first sentence ("...implementations SHOULD provide interfaces so that _annotation_ applied in statements can accompany the value where appropriate.") is too vague, but I'm also not sure how to make it less vague. I would argue that the text in my revised commit is better because it's focused on functions, and the boundary between "inside the formatter" and "in a function implementation" is the one place where information is likely to get "lost". 

I don't get the concept of "changing the value of the operand" even if I mentally replace that with "mapping the operand onto a new operand" or something like that. In your `:transform` example, I would understand `:transform` as returning something like this (if I borrow some of the machinery from #645 but simplify it for presentation):

```
AnnotatedFormattableValue {
  source: AnnotatedFormattableValue { source: Formattable("Addison"), value: FormattedValue("Addison") },
  formatter: "transform",
  options: { "to": "uppercase" },
  value: FormattedValue("ADDISON")
}
```

As with functions in other examples, it passes the same operand through (a wrapped thing ultimately representing the string "Addison"), and the transformed operand (the string "ADDISON") is the "formatted value" thing inside the structure representing the return value.

Obviously this isn't necessarily going to be the data model for runtime values, but still, it's not obvious to me that the result is just "ADDISON" with a bunch of options, rather than something that encapsulates the input "Addison", the output "ADDISON", and the options.

Finally, the sentence about defining options that are or aren't preserved (I would use "preserved" rather than "transitive" as I already said) is important, but we don't have a way in the registry to declare that info, currently.

   For example, an implementation in a typed programming language
   MAY define an interface that custom functions implement.
   Such an interface SHOULD define an implementation-specific
   argument type `T` and return type `U` for custom formatting functions
   such that `U` can be coerced to `T` without loss of information.
   The type `U`
   (or a type that `U` can be coerced to without loss of information)
   SHOULD also be the input type of custom selector functions.

> [!NOTE]
> In the Tech Preview, the spec leaves the behavior of the previous

> > example implementation-dependent. Supposing that

Reviewer 2: Isn't this PR still in scope of the Tech Preview? Or do you mean that it's implementation-dependent because of the `SHOULD`?

Reviewer 3: This PR's text is part of the Tech Preview.

Reviewer 4: We need to make clear that the 'return type' is not the 'thing bound to a variable'. The 'thing bound to a variable' also includes options.

Author: That's one of the questions, though. If the contract with function implementations is that they are responsible for returning a thing containing all the options they want to preserve, then whatever a function returns _is_ the thing bound to a variable (modulo possible lazy evaluation). If function implementations have no such responsibility, then yes, the formatter has to do additional processing to transform the "thing returned by a function" into the "thing bound to a variable".

> the external input variable `n` is bound to the string `"1"`,
> and that the implementation formats to a string,
> the formatted result of the following message:
>
> ```
> .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
> .local {$n1 :number maxFractionDigits=3}
> {{$n1}}
> ```
>
> is implementation-dependent.
> Depending on whether the options are preserved across
> the two calls to `:number`, a conformant implementation

> > could produce either "001.000" or "1.000"

Reviewer 3: I would leave all of this out.

Author: > For #3, we have _not_ delved into what the specification for outbound communication from an RV to an expression (as operand or option value) are. 

I think this is a good way of putting it; as it is, the spec doesn't say anything about how to go from the return value of a function (as implemented in an underlying programming language) to an expression (in MessageFormat). If there's going to be a custom function interface at all, I don't know how to _not_ specify that.

> > Feedback from users and implementers is desired
> > about whether to require one interpretation or the other
> > in the spec.

Reviewer 3: And I would highlight this...

```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> During the Technical Preview, feedback on how the registry
> describes how _functions_ inherit resolved values and _options_
> and what requirements this specification should impose
> are highly desired.
```
```

Author: I'm working on a revised version of this, but note that the word "inherit" should be completely off-limits since it connotes object-oriented inheritance, which would just confuse the issue.

   The form that resolved _operand_ and _option_ values take is implementation-defined.

>    A _declaration_ binds the resolved value of an _expression_

Reviewer 4: Not asking for any change in the tech preview, but this will definitely need to be revised afterwards.
The whole notion of a 'resolved value' is very muddy, unless it literally means "what is bound to a variable by an expression declaration", which means it *also* includes selection/formatting options and their values whenever those are carried over.

Author: #645 is an attempt to address this. (But it could go even further.)

   For example, in
   ```
   .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
   .local $n1 = {$n :number maxFractionDigits=3}
   ```
   the value bound to `$n` is the
   resolved value used as the _operand_
   of the `:number` _function_
   when resolving the value of the _variable_ `$n1`.

   Implementations that provide a means for defining custom functions
   SHOULD provide a means for function implementations
   to return values that contain enough information
   (e.g. a representation of
   the resolved _operand_ and _option_ values
   that the function was called with)
   to be used as arguments to subsequent calls
   to the function implementations.
   For example, an implementation might define an interface that allows custom function implementation.
   Such an interface SHOULD define an implementation-specific
   argument type `T` and return type `U`
   for implementations of functions
   such that `U` can be coerced to `T` without loss of information.
   Implementations of a _function_ SHOULD emit an 
   _Invalid Expression_ error for _operands_ whose resolved value
   or type is not supported.

> [!NOTE]
> The behavior of the previous example is

> > implementation-dependent. Supposing that

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> currently implementation-dependent. Supposing that
```

I disagree with this note as stated. I agree that the Tech Preview specification of the functions it has is _not sufficient_ to determine what the results of the cited example should be.

But that doesn't mean that our hands are tied from doing that by the time of the stable version in v46, which this seems to do.

Author: Totally agreed.

> the external input variable `n` is bound to the string `"1"`,
> and that the implementation formats to a string,
> the formatted result of the following message:
>
> ```
> .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
> .local $n1 = {$n :number maxFractionDigits=3}
> {{$n1}}
> ```
>

> > is implementation-dependent.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> is currently implementation-dependent.
```

   The form that resolved _operand_ and _option_ values take is implementation-defined.

>    A _local-declaration_ binds the resolved value of an _expression_

Reviewer 3: Technically, any declaration (not just the local ones)

   to a _variable_.
   Thus, the output of one _function_ is potentially the _operand_
   of another _function_,
   or the value of one of the _options_ for another function.
   For example, in
   ```
   .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
   .local $n1 = {$n :number maxFractionDigits=3}
   ```
   the output of the first call to `:number`

>    is the input of the second call to `:number`.

Reviewer 3: This is saying outputs and inputs, which, as I noted before, isn't correct.

Author: I tried to address this in [8a5f589](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/pull/686/commits/8a5f5893a866a2bab49c0f64b92948c2ccab01f7)

   Implementations that provide a means for defining custom functions
   SHOULD provide a means for function implementations
   to return values that contain enough information
   (e.g. the resolved _operand_ and _option_ values

>    that the function was called with)

Reviewer: As this is an example and therefore non-normative this is _ok_, but I'd consider it surprising for a function to provide its input operand & option values rather than the resolved values.

Consider, for example, `{42 :number}`. The resolved value of the operand there is something like the _string_ `'42'`. Does it really make sense for that to be considered the "value" of this expression? Or is it more appropriate to allow and expect for the `:number` implementation to parse that string into a number `42`, and to present that as the value in its output?

Author: That's a good point. I changed it to: "a representation of the resolved...", which hopefully leaves enough room to make it clear that your example can work that way.

   to be used as arguments to subsequent calls
   to the function implementations.

>    For example, a MessageFormat implementation in a typed programming language
>    MAY define an interface for custom function implementations.

Reviewer 3: This is an example, so it cannot be normative. Also, it probably applies to weakly or untyped programming languages too. How would we test this?

```suggestion
For example, an implementation might define an interface that allow custom function implementation.
```

>    Such an interface SHOULD define an implementation-specific
>    argument type `T` and return type `U`
>    for implementations of formatting functions
>    such that `U` can be coerced to `T` without loss of information.
>    The type `U`
>    (or a type that `U` can be coerced to without loss of information)
>    SHOULD also be the input type of implementations of
>    custom selector functions.

Reviewer: **Blocking:**
The explicit references to "formatting functions" and "selector functions" really do need to get dropped. That also allows the second sentence here to be dropped.

Consider this message:
```
.input {$n :number}
.match {$n}
one {{{$n} is one!!1}}
* {{{$n} is not one.}}
```

Here, the resolved value of `{$n :number}` is used both for selection and formatting. So is the `:number` implementation a "formatting function", or a "selector function"? It is neither, it's just a "function", or if we really must add a qualifier, it's a "message function".

To be clear, it is possible for an implementation to implement this using two separate "formatter" and "selector" functions, but the spec does not and should not mandate this. Instead, such an implementation carries an extra burden e.g. ensuring that any Resolution Error in the resolution of `{$n :number}` is only emitted once, rather than separately for the selector and formatter.

```suggestion
   Such an interface SHOULD define an implementation-specific
   argument type `T` and return type `U`
   for implementations of functions
   such that `U` can be coerced to `T` without loss of information.
```

Author: I'm not super comfortable with this change because it implies that a selector has to have a return type that's the same as whatever a formatter returns. At the implementation level, a selector returns a list of keys. I'm not sure how the same implementation (as opposed to two different implementations that happen to be registered to the same name in the function registry) can return both. I haven't looked at other implementations closely besides my own ICU4C one and ICU4J, but in those two implementations, it's clear that these are really different interfaces.

However, I guess one reading of your suggested text is that functions that don't return any value can be defined, so I guess that's compatible at least with my own implementation, where selectors are passed a list of keys to fill in as an out-parameter, and return `void`.

>    Implementations of specific functions MAY
>    signal errors if supplied an _operand_ that
>    does not make sense for the particular function
>    being implemented.

Reviewer 3: This is wrong guidance. There is a specific error (Invalid Expression) and it should be at least SHOULD emit, as in:

```suggestion
Implementations of a _function_ SHOULD emit an 
_Invalid Expression_ error for _operands_ whose revolve value
or type is not supported.
```

See for example the descriptions in `registry.md`, such as this one for `:string`:

> The operand of :string is either any implementation-defined type that is a string or for which 
> conversion to a string is supported, or any literal value. All other values produce an Invalid Expression 
> error.

> [!NOTE]
> The behavior of the previous example is
> implementation-dependent. Supposing that
> the external input variable `n` is bound to the string `"1"`,
> and that the implementation formats to a string,
> the formatted result of the following message:
>
> ```

> > .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
> > .local {$n1 :number maxFractionDigits=3}
> > {{$n1}}

Reviewer 5: This is not valid syntax. Did you mean the below?
```suggestion
> .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
> .local $n1 = {$n :number maxFractionDigits=3}
> {{$n1}}
```

Author: Thanks, I forgot to correct this error in both places

   A _declaration_ binds the resolved value of an _expression_
   to a _variable_.
   Thus, the result of one _function_ is potentially the _operand_
   of another _function_,
   or the value of one of the _options_ for another function.
   For example, in
   ```
   .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
   .local $n1 = {$n :number maxFractionDigits=3}
   ```
   the value bound to `$n` is the
   resolved value used as the _operand_
   of the `:number` _function_
   when resolving the value of the _variable_ `$n1`.

   Implementations that provide a means for defining custom functions
   SHOULD provide a means for function implementations
   to return values that contain enough information
   (e.g. a representation of
   the resolved _operand_ and _option_ values
   that the function was called with)
   to be used as arguments to subsequent calls
   to the function implementations.
   For example, an implementation might define an interface that allows custom function implementation.
   Such an interface SHOULD define an implementation-specific
   argument type `T` and return type `U`
   for implementations of functions

>    such that `U` can be coerced to `T` without loss of information.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   such that `U` can be coerced to `T`.
```

Reviewer 4: I think this needs to be included in the changes before merging.

   A _local-declaration_ binds the resolved value of an _expression_
   to a _variable_.
   Thus, the output of one _function_ is potentially the _operand_
   of another _function_,
   or the value of one of the _options_ for another function.
   For example, in
   ```
   .input {$n :number minIntegerDigits=3}
   .local $n1 = {$n :number maxFractionDigits=3}
   ```
   the output of the first call to `:number`
   is the input of the second call to `:number`.

   Implementations that provide a means for defining custom functions
   SHOULD provide a means for function implementations
   to return values that contain enough information
   (e.g. the resolved _operand_ and _option_ values
   that the function was called with)
   to be used as arguments to subsequent calls
   to the function implementations.
   For example, a MessageFormat implementation in a typed programming language
   MAY define an interface for custom function implementations.
   Such an interface SHOULD define an implementation-specific
   argument type `T` and return type `U`
   for implementations of formatting functions

>    such that `U` can be coerced to `T` without loss of information.

Reviewer 4: Look at the following mutating function. Do we expect to be able to extract

.local $foo {$date :extractDay calendar=georgian}
.local $fii {$foo :extractMonth calendar=georgian}

Would the above text mean that  :extractDay SHOULD have a "return type" such that it preserves the month value from $date?

Author: No; to be concrete, I'll use a simplified version of the C++ implementation.

`:extractDay` and `:extractMonths` would be implemented as classes that provide a `format()` method. The type of that method (ignoring options and context, for simplicity) is:

```
FormattedPlaceholder format(FormattedPlaceholder&& argument);
```

A particular instance of the type `FormattedPlaceholder` could contain any set of options, or none.

Sorry for talking in implementation terms, but I'm not sure how else to say it, given that my goal here is to suggest that implementors not do the "obvious" thing, which would be to define something like a `FormatterInput` and `FormatterOutput` type, which are not coercible to each other, and define the interface like:

```
FormatterOutput format(FormatterInput&& argument);
```

(I would expect every implementation to have some sort of interface between the formatter and calls to custom functions (I say "custom" because built-in functions could be handled inside the formatter), so I think it's meaningful to refer to it in this note. In a unityped implementation language like JavaScript, there's less of a hazard since there's only one type, trivially guaranteeing the property stated in the note.)

Reviewer 3: This is still in an example and must not be normative. Even if it weren't an example, it's way too specific to put in the specification.

If we want to provide guidance to users/implementers, instead of pouring stuff into the spec, we should write some user guide material.
